[Music]
there it is I found it this is the
reason you've all come here that's the
reason I am here making this video today
the most expensive oil paint I could
find in the world world well I have
purchased nine tubes of the most
expensive oil paint I could possibly
find but I thought I would keep this
video - I guess you could say a little
more conventional style and
off-the-shelf oil paint that you can go
purchased but of course is the most
expensive out there and compare that to
the cheapest Paint Pot and I have here
the receipt for each of these is gonna
make me just a little bit sad and you
can prove to you that the thumbnail was
not quickly I believe these are the
normal tubes at 118 dollars however
there are two tubes this is $180 per
tube mats what's that together 360 is it
Hey Wow okay all right so these are the
two valued at $190 and these are all
about 120 dollars each that's still a
lot of money so there it is yeah one
hundred and twenty dollars per tube one
hundred and eighty dollars per tube
versus generic $2 shop oil paint but I'm
gonna put these to the test and directly
put them up against each other and see
if an uneducated artist like myself when
it comes to the fine knit ease of
classical painting can tell the
difference and even describe and share
the experience of comparing these cheap
paints versus the expensive paints I've
done a lot of intro a lot of receipts
that's actually using
I can't just put oil paint straight down
I need to put down some liquid why as
Bob Ross says frequently and I don't
have liquid white but you can make it
you just get some titanium white few
drops of artists linseed oil not too
much just a little bit that was too much
and mix that together
so looks like meringue all right I don't
know if that's the right like viscosity
or whatever but was he here we go I
think it's too thick doesn't seem right
titanium white mixed with the linseed
oil 7525 I haven't had enough linseed
oil that might be all right here's to
hoping it feels a little better bob says
yeah I'm gonna need a tiny amount to
scrape off what I just put down just to
have a slightly wet surface now we're
ready to go so this is it this is the
moment of truth let's start off with the
cheat and let's just pick a few colors
that we have equivalents to so we can
directly compare them let's just try and
match up a few this is Vermillion there
you go
what of a million yellow ochre I think
that's as close as our comparisons can
get all right starting with our blue
this is our very cheap blue valued at
less than the dollar for the tube this
across see how that goes
you can paint with this and we have the
million sound effects add to the
prestige
I guess that's the oil not mixed in so I
don't know maybe the other pain will be
the same the last minute at least with
our little experiment yellow oh alright
that did that that did gross me out of
it oh my god this is like the poopy a
start supplier I've ever worked with
except for poop I've I have no but
should I let me know in the comments
aren't with poop you know I'm not above
it it feels a little coarse and then at
the same time it feels like a little
weak but this is it this is the moment
I'm actually a little too scared to use
these because I feel like I'm most
nervous about being dead this is just
hang on let me just soak this in again
twelve hundred and twelve dollars like
this video for God's sake and subscribe
for more of this cuz you know you want
it alright let's try this out well
that's like even more oily and chunky
than the other one maybe you meant to
like mix it up before you put it down
I'm just gonna scoop you up it's put you
so oily it smudge it okay alright
starting to look a bit more velvety
feels thicker that is noticeable I don't
know it seems much more workable let's
just try the other colors Chinese
Vermillion I forgot to do the mix thing
because that was way better way of doing
it it is like immediately like it feels
super legit I mean look at that
definitely much richer going down I did
it again forget every time got a mix
that you roll it into the palette knife
like once or twice and there's a huge
difference just look at that okay
immediately I'm starting to get wow I'm
feeling the flow developing me
artistically a little bit quicker even
just with that as a dabble I will say
that I feel like that is an immediate
huge difference these are really
consistent and the colors look really
refined but have the capacity to be
really deep whereas these almost look
like play-doh
so now after our double it's time to
really see how this goes
once we dive into it I'm gonna create an
ambitious painting within the time
period I have so maybe two or three
hours per painting with the cheap oil
paint and with the expensive oil and and
as I go through the experience I'll
share with you my thoughts and the
impressions that I have working with
each of them and then with them compared
to each other this is gonna be fun let's
do it now hold up a second just before
we get started I wanted to share some
good news with you
responsive that's right huge thank you
to Rea Khan for sponsoring this video
they send me the e25 wireless earbuds
I'm actually recording the sponsor spot
after I made the artwork I pulled these
things out of the box and just started
using them they pair really really
easily I literally just pulled them out
put them in press the button on my phone
and they were paired and I had them in
for about five hours and didn't even get
like a battery warning now records a
company founded by Ray J whose aim is to
provide innovative headphone designs at
prices that don't break the bank and
break on aims to empower go-getters
around the world by creating the next
wave in wireless audio technology in
fact ray con earbuds start at about half
the price of other premium wireless
earbuds case has this sexy magnetized
yeah so if you want to get some for
yourself there's a wicked Black Friday
deal that you can take advantage of now
and get them for an even more affordable
price point than they're usually very
affordable price point they stand up to
or beat any wireless earbuds or
headphones I've ever worn and that's
just my first impression they're super
comfortable really slim and very very
cool these are the whole bunch more
colors and products from headphones to
speak is available at buy rake on.com
slash jazzer and a huge thank you of
course to rake on for sponsoring this
video so let's start off with a bit of a
disclaimer I am NOT a classically
trained painter nor am i bob ross and
while i definitely have a lot more
experience with digital art than
traditional I've at least watched enough
Bob Ross to try and fake it till I make
it so here I am attempting to do so by
painting two pictures in the style of a
Bob Ross wet on wet painting of course
not exact copies of each other or any
particular problems painting but
compositionally the same and
hiring the same techniques and general
layering I started off working with a
cheetah paint while the sky gradient was
pretty easy and pleasant to put down a
problem started to appear when I used
the palette knife to put down the
mountains this stuff was way too liquid
it doesn't cover with enough opacity
when I put it down and as I tried to
work in the highlights and the shadows
that clouds and mountains it became
abundantly clear that this stuff does
not like to be layered it's so wet that
when I lay down the undiluted paint on
top of a thin layer of sky or mountains
that I've already put down and
immediately mixes and loses its color
and I found myself constantly cleaning
and reapplying the paint to my brush
[Music]
once again the viscosity was an issue
when painting the white snow around the
lake area the white was super wet and
weirdly soft and liquid so I really
couldn't get any sharp edges or nice
clean or dry textures when I put it down
[Music]
of course when I wanted the paint nice
and wet like when I put down the trunks
of trees for example there was no issue
in fact it was pretty pleasant to work
with and laid on top of my previous
layers quite easily
however when trying to brush the foliage
down putting light on dark or
maintaining a consistent color was next
to impossible the other issue is that of
contrast or lack thereof with the intent
to lay down the foreground detail I
ended up unintentionally mixing
everything together there was very
little visual cue that the foreground
was it anyway separate from the
background and any attempt to place
shadows or highlights ended up just
muddying it all together I did the best
I could but often that just meant
slopping down frustratingly large globs
of lighter paint to get any sort of
contrast to stick to the canvas at all
[Music]
now it's time for the main event the
expensive paint putting this on the
pallet was a surprising experience some
colors were pretty easy to prepare
others let out a lot more oil than paint
when I first tried to splurge them out
so I tried to mixing them in the tube
itself rocking it between my fingers
hoping that would sort of mix it inside
in the end it really just came down to
letting out as much of the oil as I
could before putting the paint down and
that wasn't always entirely successful
anyway the rush you get knowing you're
handling something that feels like it
should be very special whether it is or
not is another question but the rush
that definitely surprised me but now
let's get to the actual painting
experience and the initial experience I
have to say is night and day compared to
the cheap paint where the cheap paints
problem was that it was too wet it's
almost a problem in Reverse that this
stuff was too dense and dry I needed to
use a little paint thinner quite often
to get enough color moving around or
load onto the brush and I also had to
use a lot of force with the brush to
push enough of the color down and lay
down broader areas onto the canvas or to
spread it around now this is definitely
good in the long term it means that the
biggest strength of this paint is that
the pigment is so densely contained but
it did feel super tacky when getting the
paint from the palette into the bristles
of the brush
but once the paint was in the bristles
applying it to the canvas couldn't feel
more contrasted with the cheap paper
wherever my brush touched the canvas the
exact amount of paint that touched the
surface was applied to the painting it
was really hard to get used to honestly
it revealed my flaws as a painter and
made me loosen up much more and work
with more flow and in a lot more stages
to get to the result I wanted and much
slower if I didn't do that if I didn't
take my time and work in more layers and
steps
everything I did looked super hot I mean
this is very good the white paint was
weird the consistency was more like
calling you than paint but it seems
different to the other paints from the
beginning even when I applied it to the
palette it spread in a real iqua fide
way and didn't lift into the brush
bristles very easily at all I completely
ditched trying to do the mountain
highlights with this white paint as it
just didn't do what I needed any instead
I turned to my artist spectrum titanium
white
so starting again with the mountains I
tried to approach them in the same way
that I did with my cheap painting but it
wasn't anywhere near as simple I mean
don't get me wrong the paint did
everything I asked it to the problem is
I mean a few things I guess I feel like
I was over asking the paint of us I was
over working the mountains and over
blending my colors but I was also over
thinking probably because I felt the
perfectionist in me take hold much more
working with this stuff but all that
aside the great news is that this stuff
is so matter-of-fact to work with I just
scraped the area clean and started again
when I wasn't satisfied and that also
didn't feel particularly intimidating to
do because I knew it would do it very
effectively and it did but I guess this
might have cultivated the picky page in
me coming out because I did happen
to the mountains a total of four times
part perfectionist but also part
particularly prickly pigment placement
alliteration for you
[Music]
this next section here is the best
showcase for the reason that the
expensive paint is definitely better not
necessarily this expensive paint because
I did get just the most unreasonably
expensive paint I could just try things
out but in general higher quality paint
allows you to move between printing
light and dark and the dark on but back
and forth blending when you choose to
superceding or replacing or even
starting again the main point is quality
oil paint seems to give you the results
based on both what you choose to do and
how good you are it's kind of like the
cheap paint is a Honda Civic an
expensive paint is a Formula One racing
car most people only need a Honda Civic
gets you most places you need to
sometimes people get something a little
nicer because they don't want a few more
gears or a couple of more details but
it's only really the serious people that
get in the Formula One racing car and
anyone who can't pilot that thing
sitting in the seat frankly looks a bit
stupid fortunately even though I don't
entirely know how to pilot this stuff
very well I'm happy to look a bit stupid
for you guys and hope that you enjoy the
expect
[Music]
at work one this is the cheap oil paint
artwork as far as the outcome goes
honestly it's not awful it's not an
amazing working experience but hey you
can follow a Bob Ross tutorial and end
up with something half decent I mean I
wasn't following along with anything but
still just from improvising it's fun
enough and it's good enough but the
outcome is okay and it was a fun enough
process and actually a lot quicker to
work with and get a result out of than
the expensive stuff speaking of which
let's have a look at the expensive
painting I think just by virtue of the
amount of paint I used this painting is
minimally worth at least several hundred
dollars now of course I am NOT a
classical painter I am NOT Bob Ross so
you know there's only so much I can do
to show off the difference between these
two effectively however I'm pretty sure
just through the time-lapse and through
some of the zooming stuff you can see
but this stuff is really really thick to
work with and it layers really well and
it's really really fun just sort of
rework I found myself being way way more
fussy working with the expensive paints
I'm sure it's a mix between it being
easier to rework things but also the
fact that I spent a ridiculous amount of
money on paints and wanted to feel like
it was worthwhile so it's probably a bit
of both but the verdict is up to you let
me know is there a point getting the
super expensive stuff I mean obviously
if you're a better painter than me there
probably is but what do you think do you
notice much of a difference I feel like
there's definitely a better contrast and
the more expensive oil painting but at
the same time some of the colors pop
over here pretty well maybe I just went
a little bit gentle with the colors and
the expensive painting but I was just
trying to balance it all out anyways the
comments down below is your territory to
let me know what you think and maybe
what I should try and now that I have
this stuff leave your suggestions down
there I want to thank you so much for
watching this video and make sure if you
enjoyed this video to go hit the like
button so other people enjoy it and
subscribe for more fun with art and
creativity and all sorts of things and
speaking of all sorts of things some
videos over there you might enjoy that's
it for now thank you for watching and
until next time I'll see you later